### Virtual machine (IaaS)
- The hierarchy of azure account is Azure account -> subscription -> resource group -> resources.
- The resource group is assigned to a specific region.
- Each resource must be assigned to a resource group.
- It is not necessary that the resources in the resource group be in its region.
- The account can have more than one subscription.
- We can scale up the OS disk, but we have to deallocate and stop the machine.
- We can scale up the attached disks while the machine is running.
- We can NOT scale down the size of OS disk or attached disks, but we can make it by creating a new smaller disk and transfer the data to it, finally we delete the large disk.
---
### App service (PaaS)
- The cloud provider configure the environment for you (infra + OS + licence), and you only publishing the code or the app.
- The way of publishing our website:
	- 1- Create the app service (choose the framework and OS and its size ..etc).
	- 2- Type your code on VS and sign in with the azure account.
	- 3- Publish the website through the VS (you can create the app service in this step).
---
### Virtual network
- We need to make our private network to put the resources in it, so they can communicate with each other, or we can connect them with on-prem infrastructure.
- When we configure the virtual network, it will ask about the *address space* which is used to create subnets from it.
	- For example if the address space is 192.168.0.0/16, we can create subnet 1 = 192.168.1.0/24, subnet 2 =192.168.2.0/24 and so on
	- We create subnets based on the total number of IP addresses in the address space, it means the total number of IPs in all subnets must = the total number of IPs of the address space
- If there is a DHCP server in the subnet, it will start assign configuration starting from fourth IP as first 3 are booked.
	- Example: subnet-A 192.168.1.0/24
		- 192.168.1.0 -> Network ID.
		- 192.168.1.1 -> GW.
		- 192.168.1.2 -> DNS.
		- 192.168.1.3 -> DNS.
		- 192.168.1.4 to 192.168.1.254 -> usable IPs.
		- 192.168.1.255 -> Broadcast.